Import / Export
================

.. index::
   single: Export; Stock Management
.. index:: Import; Stock Management

Managing import / export with foreign companies can sometimes be very complex. Between a departure port and destination company, products can get stopped for several weeks at sea or somewhere in the numerous transportation stages and customs. To manage such deliveries efficiently it's important to:

* know where your products are,

* know when they're likely to arrive at their destination,

* know your value in transit,

* follow the development of the different steps.

Linked locations in Open ERP enable this all to be managed rather elegantly. You can use a structure like this:

Suppliers

  European Suppliers

  Chinese Suppliers

In transit

  Shanghai Port

  Pacific Ocean

  San Francisco Port

  San Francisco Customs

Stock
------

The transit location are linked between themselves with a manual confirmation step. The internal stock move is validated at each port and customs arrival. Open ERP prepares all the linked moves automatically.

.. tip::  **More information** *Intrastat*

    Companies that do import / export should install the module ``report_intrastat``. This will enable them to prepare the reports needed to declare product exports.

You can use the lead times between different locations to account for real delays.    Your lead times and stock forecasts are calculated by Open ERP to estimate the arrival of incoming products so that you can respond to a customer's needs as precisely as possible.

You can also value the products in transit in your account depending on the chosen stock location configuration.

.. index:: Rent

Rental locations
-----------------

You can manage rental locations in Open ERP very simply using the same system of linked locations. Using the module ``stock_location`` you can set a return date for rental items sent to customer location after a certain rental period.

Then the set of real and virtual stocks is maintained daily in real time. The different operations such as delivery and receipt after a few days are automatically suggested by Open ERP which simplifies the work of data entry.

You then have the product list found in the customer locations and your own stock in your stock location. The list of goods receipts waiting is automatically generated by Open ERP using the location links.

The same principle is used for internal stock to generate the quality control for certain products.

Consigned Products
-------------------

The principle of linked locations is used to manage consigned products. You can indicate that certain products should be returned to you after a certain number of days after they have been delivered to customers.

When the products have been delivered Open ERP automatically creates goods receipts for the consigned product. The indicated date is obviously approximate but enables you to forecast returns.


.. Copyright © Open Object Press. All rights reserved.

.. You may take electronic copy of this publication and distribute it if you don't
.. change the content. You can also print a copy to be read by yourself only.

.. We have contracts with different publishers in different countries to sell and
.. distribute paper or electronic based versions of this book (translated or not)
.. in bookstores. This helps to distribute and promote the Open ERP product. It
.. also helps us to create incentives to pay contributors and authors using author
.. rights of these sales.

.. Due to this, grants to translate, modify or sell this book are strictly
.. forbidden, unless Tiny SPRL (representing Open Object Presses) gives you a
.. written authorisation for this.

.. Many of the designations used by manufacturers and suppliers to distinguish their
.. products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear in this book,
.. and Open ERP Press was aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been
.. printed in initial capitals.

.. While every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this book, the publisher
.. and the authors assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages
.. resulting from the use of the information contained herein.

.. Published by Open ERP Press, Grand Rosière, Belgium
